# Shade-Comparator
Contains the program I used to make a functional shade comparator for glue manufacturing. In the program itself, I have commented brief explanations of why I made certain choices in either the structure or functionality of the program, and how it can be adapted for other projects not related to glue.

In glue manufacturing, there are certain universal color standards which companies measure the glue they either recieve or manufacture by. The darkness of the glue is usually a product of how long the glue has been under intense heat, with a darker the shade indicating longer time spent in a high-temperature environment. For some applications, such as when glue needs to be transparent or near-transparent, the color is very important. Not only that, but a darker gluestick also indicates poorer bonding properties and increases the risk of glue char ending up inside the glue stick or glue product being made. These standards are meant to help glue companies set a consistent standard for which glue they accept or reject.

However, human eyes and minds do not have objective photographic capabilities to know with certainty if the shade they are seeing is precisely one shade or precisely another. The lighting of the environment, any residual eye problems, and the minute differences between each shade make eyeballing color differences inaccurate and unpleasant for those on the manufacturing floor who have to judge the glue. This is where this shade comparator comes in.

While originally designed for glue manufacturing, the code can really be adapted to deal with any range of shade detection, you will just have to change around the parameters for the function which assigns a value to a range of 'Y' values. If you are trying to use this in glue manufacturing, check out my GrabCAD at https://grabcad.com/matthew.weippert-2/models to take a look at the casing and testing components I designed to make my unit work.
